Outbreaks of popular resistance have been reported in many areas, including in <LANDLOCAL>. The consequences are still unknown.
Representatives of the NATO press service are expected to make further statements during the day. At the time of publication in the press, the details of the attack were still unknown, although, according to rumors, <LANDLOCAL> was badly damaged.
Public radio stations <LANDLOCAL> soon went off the air, possibly due to accurate missile strikes aimed at relay stations and radio masts. Amateur radio operators still broadcasting in the area are transmitting chaotic but unconfirmed reports of intense fighting.
The situation is still very unclear, but civilians around <LANDLOCAL> were immediately evacuated in accordance with plans developed before the war.
In response to persistent rumors of atrocities around <LANDLOCAL>, the International Red Cross demanded immediate access to combat areas for observation and assistance.
The Red Army took <LANDLOCAL>. The UN Secretary-General issued an appeal, urging "to exercise restraint in the use of force and pay special attention to taking all possible precautions to avoid civilian deaths."
Eyewitness reports of anti-personnel mines planted from helicopters over populated areas around <LANDLOCAL> caused an international outcry, and several heads of State around the world demanded an immediate ban on their use.
Satellite photos <LANDLOCAL> indicate significant destruction in residential areas. Representatives of the Red Cross ask the USSR to provide safe corridors for refugees and the delivery of humanitarian aid.
The roads from <LANDLOCAL> are filled with refugees. Humanitarian organizations like UNHCR are calling on the USSR to organize the access of doctors and rescuers to the affected areas.
Disturbing rumors about extrajudicial executions of journalists and local politicians in <LANDLOCAL> have been circulating since the Soviet invasion. Moscow has not yet commented in detail, but refers to "instructions to all armed personnel to comply with all conventions concerning the laws of war."
The Soviet state news agency TASS yesterday published photos of what is claimed to be canisters of artillery shells with a nerve agent found at an abandoned NATO army post near <LANDLOCAL>. Washington officials immediately dismissed the findings as an "obvious hoax."