Outbreaks of popular resistance have been reported in many areas, including in <LANDLOCAL>. The consequences are still unknown.
NATO press officials are expected to make further statements during the day. At the time of press, details of the attack were yet unknown, although <LANDLOCAL> is rumoured to have been hit hard.
<LANDLOCAL>'s public radio stations soon went off the air, possibly due to precision missile strikes targeted at relay stations and radio masts. Radio amateurs still broadcasting in the area give chaotic but unconfirmed reports of intense fighting.
The situation is still very unclear, but civilians around <LANDLOCAL> were immediately evacuated in accordance with plans developed before the war.
In response to persistent rumors of atrocities around <LANDLOCAL>, the International Red Cross demanded immediate access to combat areas for observation and assistance.
The NATO army took <LANDLOCAL>. The UN Secretary-General issued an appeal, urging "to exercise restraint in the use of force and pay special attention to taking all possible precautions to avoid civilian deaths."
Witness reports of helicopter-disposed anti-personnel mines over the populated areas around <LANDLOCAL> have caused international outcry, with several heads-of-state around the globe demanding an immediate ban on their use.
Satellite photos <LANDLOCAL> indicate significant destruction in residential areas. Representatives of the Red Cross ask NATO to provide safe corridors for refugees and the delivery of humanitarian aid.
The roads from <LANDLOCAL> are filled with refugees. Humanitarian organizations like UNHCR are calling on NATO to organize the access of doctors and rescuers to the affected areas.
Disturbing rumours of extrajudicial executions of journalists and local politicians in <LANDLOCAL> are circulating in the wake of the Soviet invasion. Moscow has not yet commented in detail, but refer to the "instruction to all armed personnel to follow all conventions regarding the laws of war".
The Soviet state news agency TASS yesterday released pictures of what are claimed to be canisters of nerve agent artillery shells, found at an abandoned NATO army post near <LANDLOCAL>. Washington officials immediately disclaimed the findings as an "obvious hoax".